---
author:
- 'Jason Lowe-Power'
...

ECS 201A Computer Architecture
==============================

This course is...

Pre-requisites
--------------

Introduction to computer architecture course (e.g., ECS 154B).

I am going to assume you have knowledge of ISAs, simple pipelining,
simple caching, and high-level computer organization. These basics are
covered in D. A. Patterson and J. L. Hennessy, Computer Organization and
Design: The Hardware/Software Interface.

Book and reading materials
--------------------------

In this class we'll be closely following Hennessy and Patterson's
Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach.

Class format
------------

### Lectures (Tuesday & Thursday 1:40-3pm)

Our lecture time will be a traditional lecture structure. You are
expected to have read the sections from the book *before* attending
lecture. Lecture will not directly cover what is in the book. Instead,
lecture will build on what you have read in the book and dive deeper
into the topic.

### Discussion (Monday 3:10-4pm)

Discussions will be used for two things: 1) Discussing reading material
and homeworks and 2) short quizzes. Each discussion class will be split
between discussing the weekly paper and either a short quiz (\~25
minutes) or a homework discussion.

### Homeworks

There will be five homeworks throughout the quarter, with one due about
every-other week. Homeworks will involve a programming assignment and
answering a set of questions. Homeworks will be graded based on the
*answers to the assigned questions* in the form of a short report.

Turning in the homework consists of 3 parts: 1. Turning in your code
before discussion begins on the due date. 2. Turning in a pdf of your
report before discussion begins on the due date. 3. Bringing a *paper*
copy of your report to class.

*Late assignments receive an automatic 25% reduction per day they are
late.*

### Quizzes

There will be four quizzes. One will be given about every-other week.
These quizzes are meant for both me and you to gauge your current
understanding the course. There will be a mix of questions from the book
and new questions.

The quizzes will be open book, open paper, and open notes. However, I
can't allow electronic versions of books, papers, or notes. This would
be too easy for you to just ctrl-f the answer!

(Note: I hate killing trees. If you have a solution that keeps the
spirit of open book quizzes and allows electronic version, I am open to
amending this policy.)

### Paper reading and reviews

Each week we will be reading a scientific paper from the computer
architecture literature. This will give you an idea of either the
history of architecture techniques discussed in lecture or a perspective
on current research.

Students are expected to have completed the assigned readings before
attending class and actively participate in discussions. *For each
paper, you will be required to turn in a short review by 6am Monday
morning.*

To facilitate great class discussions, students must submit an email
review of selected papers by 6:00am before the discussion for which the
paper is assigned. Late reviews will not be accepted and the time is
based on when the email is received, not sent.

I encourage students are encouraged to form study groups to discuss the
papers before writing their reviews, but each student must write their
own independent review.

Reviews should be emailed to Prof. Jason Lowe-Power (<jlowepower@ucdavis.edu>) with:

:   Subject: \[ECS201A Review\] Author1 Year (e.g., \[ECS201A Review\]
    Moore 1998)

The ASCII body of the message (NOT an attachment; NOT HTML; NOT PDF) should be 20 to 40 lines (maximum 3200 characters) with:

:   -   a short summary of the problem the paper attacks and methods
        used (if any),
    -   a short summary of the paper's results or key implications,
    -   your opinion about what's good and bad about the paper, and
    -   a topic/question for lecture

Follow instructions exactly so that email filters do not lose your
review. The last three points are key and best enable your review to
stand out.

Reviews will be graded on a scale of Excellent (10 points), Satisfactory
(7 points), and Unsatisfactory (3 points). Most reviews will get a 7.
Reviews that are too long will automatically receive an Unsatisfactory
grade. Reviews that fail to exactly follow the subject line rules will
not be graded! The purpose here is to get students to read (and discuss)
papers before they are discussed in class.

Grading
-------

There will be a grade breakdown!
